Come back in the last video we had this problem of the view getting a little bit ugly with our navigation
as we became smaller and smaller with our viewport.
How can we fix this.
And here I'm going to show you a topic that actually cover in my next course but just because it might
be useful for this case I'm going to introduce you to something called Media QUIERES and media queries
allow us to create Responsive Web sites and tell our web pages what to do when the size of our screen
gets small or big.
And a link to this Web site over here.
But essentially what it allows us to do with media queries we can have devices tablets laptops wearables
that have different screen sizes and tell it how to display our web page based on those sizes.
For example here it shows us what our view points will be for iPhone 4 and iPhone for us and using this
syntax of at media only screen and giving it some minimum device with and Nax device with.
We can tell it how to display our page or have CSSA properties specific to just this view size that
is minimum view size is going to be 320 pixel and Nax is 480 pixels.
And as you can imagine there is a lot of these based on different devices and viewpoints.
Now things like CSSA great and flex box actually resolve a lot of this but I want to demonstrate just
one use case with our little example that is this contact's getting smushed.
So let's create our own media query for our navigation in order to do that.
All we need to do is say at media we say on the screen and this is saying what do we want our media
query for.
And you can do things like print here for example when you're printing something but 99 percent of the
time you're just going to have script.
And here we're going to say and we'll say that max width is going to be 600 pixels that is use this
CSSA properties that we're about to define right here only when Max with its 600 pixel that is as soon
as this is less than 600 pixel.
And with I apply these properties here so I'll say main nav will have a font size.
We can do different things here but let's just say a smaller font size and maybe will do padding of
zero just so they're closer together.
Fight save this and refresh.
Look at that.
Everything fits in because our font size is smaller and we've removed any extra padding that we may
have.
But notice here as I make things bigger you see that as soon as they pass 600 pixels we restore our
defaults with larger font size like that.
So using media queries we just made our nav bar more responsive.
Nice and easy.
And this is a common pattern that I recommend with your navigation that is having our NAV element with
an unordered list and an ally list.
Our main nav which will be a flex box and we'll have a push class that uses this margin left.
Auto.
To push whatever we want to our NAV to the right side.
Usually something like contact or log in to have it all the way to the right.
So hopefully this wasn't too bad.
Like I said you don't need to memorize this.
You can even copy the code that I'll leave for you at the end of these videos once you get used to this
syntax you now have a solid foundation to build the navigation.
But we have three more things to go so let's get to that in the next video.